Messaging costs money, and this is the page where that money shows up.
p02
From the Billing area, open Usage and Billing.
p03
One screen turns a wash's texts and emails into a bill.
p04
When a client calls about messaging charges, everything you need is here,
p05
and all of it is read only.
p06
Read the line under the heading first.
p07
Current billing period, May 2026, with the date range,
p08
the next invoice date, and the days remaining.
p09
Every number on this page belongs to that period.
p10
Anchor here before you quote a single figure to a client.
p11
Now the four tiles.
p12
Two of them are spend: what texting cost this period, and what email cost.
p13
The other two are volume, each with a delivered percentage beside it.
p14
Cost on the left, activity on the right.
p15
That's the whole bill at a glance.
p16
Under the band, six tabs.
p17
Overview is the summary, and it's open now.
p18
The rest drill into one thing each: text detail, email detail, invoices,
p19
the rate card, and spending alerts.
p20
Notice the badge on Invoices.
p21
One open.
p22
That's a client's actual bill, waiting.
p23
Start with the left panel, Monthly Usage Cost.
p24
Stacked bars show combined text and email spend by month, back through November.
p25
The current month carries an asterisk: estimated, month not complete.
p26
Never quote May as final until it closes.
p27
And one caption quirk: the subtitle says six months, but seven bars render.
p28
Count the bars.
p29
The right panel is the one to learn: Usage by Source.
p30
Every row is one campaign, automation, or transactional stream,
p31
with its volume, its cost, and a share bar ranking it.
p32
This table answers the most common billing call there is: why did my bill move?
p33
Read the rows top down.
p34
This period, the Enth Wash Rewards automation is the biggest line at nearly thirty two dollars,
p35
ahead of the membership drive and the win-back campaigns.
p36
Receipts barely register.
p37
One row usually explains the whole swing, and the share bars point you straight at it.
p38
Scroll to the Year to Date Summary.
p39
Platform fees, text and email cost for the year, total billed, and total paid,
p40
with a checkmark reading current.
p41
Billed equals paid, so this account is square.
p42
There's an export control on this panel.
p43
Leave it alone; nothing exports in this walk.
p44
Now walk the tabs.
p45
Click S-M-S Usage.
p46
This is the detail behind the period's texting spend:
p47
one row per send batch, with its recipients, deliveries, failures, and cost.
p48
When a client asks whether a text actually went out,
p49
the failed column against delivered is your answer.
p50
Next, Email Usage.
p51
Same log for the email channel, with bounces in place of failures.
p52
Receipts show up here too, tagged transactional, at a fraction of a cent each.
p53
Click Invoices, the tab with the badge.
p54
Usage explains the charges; this tab holds the bill itself.
p55
When a client wants the document rather than the why, send them here.
p56
One invoice sits open in this period.
p57
Rate Card next.
p58
The multiplier that turns volume into spend:
p59
two and a half cents a text, a fraction of a cent an email, and failed sends are never billed.
p60
And Spending Alerts.
p61
Thresholds that warn before messaging spend runs away,
p62
with an early warning at eighty percent and a per-campaign cap that pauses sends over budget.
p63
Worth knowing when a client is surprised by a bill.
p64
Back to Overview.
p65
Two questions cover most billing calls.
p66
Why did the bill move?
p67
Usage by Source, top row first.
p68
Where's the bill itself?
p69
The Invoices tab, badged one open.
p70
Read the period line, respect the asterisk, and never touch the export.
p71
That's the whole page.